Add docs for resource access requests (#13831)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/enterprise/workflow/resource-requests.mdx

h1: Teleport Resource Access Requests
---

With Teleport Resource Access Requests, users can request access to specific
resources without needing to know anything about the roles or RBAC controls used
under the hood.
The Access Request API makes it easy to dynamically approve or deny these
requests.

<ScopedBlock scope={["oss"]}>

Just-in-time Access Requests are a feature of Teleport Enterprise.
Open-source Teleport users can get a preview of how Access Requests work by
requesting a role via the Teleport CLI. Full access request functionality,
including Resource Access Requests and an intuitive and searchable UI are
available in Teleport Enterprise.

View this guide as the user of another Teleport edition:

<TileSet>
<Tile icon="cloud" title="Teleport Cloud" href="./resource-requests.mdx/?scope=cloud">
</Tile>
<Tile icon="building" title="Teleport Enterprise" href="./resource-requests.mdx/?scope=enterprise">
</Tile>
</TileSet>

</ScopedBlock>

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud", "enterprise"]}>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

> 

Author: I'm copying the format from many of our more recent docs guides, eg https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/guides/joining-nodes-aws-iam/

## Step 4/8. Search for resources

First, log in as `alice`.

```code
$ tsh login --proxy teleport.example.com --user alice
```

Notice that `tsh ls` returns an empty list, because `alice` does not have access to any resources by default.
```code
$ tsh ls
Node Name Address Labels
--------- ------- ------
```

Then try searching for all available ssh nodes.

```code
$ tsh request search --kind node
Name                                 Hostname    Labels       Resource ID
------------------------------------ ----------- ------------ ------------------------------------------------------
b1168402-9340-421a-a344-af66a6675738 iot         test=test    /teleport.example.com/node/b1168402-9340-421a-a344-af66a6675738
bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f node        test=test    /teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f
 
To request access to these resources, run
> tsh request create --resource /teleport.example.com/node/b1168402-9340-421a-a344-af66a6675738 --resource /teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f \
    --reason <request reason>
```

You can search for resources of kind `node`, `kube_cluster`, `db`, `app`, and `windows_desktop`.

> Advanced filters and queries are supported, see our [filtering reference](/setup/reference/cli/#resource-filtering).

Author: weird both work for me, updated to your suggestion though

  Cluster:            teleport.example.com
  Roles:              access, requester
  Logins:             alice
  Kubernetes:         disabled
  Allowed Resources:  ["/teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f"]
  Valid until:        2022-06-23 22:46:22 -0700 PDT [valid for 11h16m0s]
  Extensions:         permit-agent-forwarding, permit-port-forwarding, permit-pty
```

Alice can now view and access the node.

```code
$ tsh ls
Node Name Address   Labels
--------- --------- ---------
iot       [::]:3022 test=test
 
$ tsh ssh alice@iot
iot:~ alice$
```

While logged in with a resource access request, users will be blocked from access to any other resources.
This is necessary because their certicate now contains an elevated role.
Their certificate is restricted to only allow access to the resources they were specifically approved for.
They will need to `tsh logout` and log back in to resume their regular access.

## Step 8/8. Automatically request access for SSH

Once you have configured resource access requests,
`tsh ssh` is able to automatically create a resource access request for you when access is denied,

> allowing you to skip the `tsh request search` and `tsh request create` steps.

Author: good call

```code
$ tsh ssh alice@iot
ERROR: access denied to alice connecting to iot on cluster teleport.example.com

You do not currently have access to alice@iot, attempting to request access.

Enter request reason: please
Creating request...
Request ID: ab43fc70-e893-471b-872e-ae65eb24fd76
Username:   alice
Roles:      access
Resources:  ["/teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f"]
Reason:     "please"
Reviewers:  [none] (suggested)
Status:     PENDING

hint: use 'tsh login --request-id=<request-id>' to login with an approved request

Waiting for request approval...
 
Approval received, reason="okay"
Getting updated certificates...
 
iot:~ alice$
```

## Next Steps

> ### Restrict the resources users can request access to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Restricting the resources a user can request access to
```

</Tile>
<Tile icon="building" title="Teleport Enterprise" href="./resource-requests.mdx/?scope=enterprise">
</Tile>
</TileSet>

</ScopedBlock>

<ScopedBlock scope={["cloud", "enterprise"]}>

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/8. Create the requester role

This role allows the requester to search for resources accessible by the
`access` role (all resources by default) and request access to them.

```yaml
# requester.yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: requester
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      search_as_roles:
        - access
```

```code
$ tctl create requester.yaml
```

## Step 2/8. Create the reviewer role

This role allows the reviewer to approve all requests for the `access` role.

```yaml
# reviewer.yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: reviewer
spec:
  allow:
    review_requests:
      roles:
        - access
```

```code
$ tctl create reviewer.yaml
```

## Step 3/8. Grant the roles to users

Grant the `requester` and `reviewer` roles to existing users, or create new
users to test this feature.

> Make sure the requester has a valid `login` so that they can view and access ssh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure the requester has a valid `login` so that they can view and access SSH
```

```code
$ tsh login --proxy teleport.example.com --user alice
```

Notice that `tsh ls` returns an empty list, because `alice` does not have access to any resources by default.
```code
$ tsh ls
Node Name Address Labels
--------- ------- ------
```

Then try searching for all available ssh nodes.

```code
$ tsh request search --kind node
Name                                 Hostname    Labels       Resource ID
------------------------------------ ----------- ------------ ------------------------------------------------------
b1168402-9340-421a-a344-af66a6675738 iot         test=test    /teleport.example.com/node/b1168402-9340-421a-a344-af66a6675738
bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f node        test=test    /teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f
 
To request access to these resources, run
> tsh request create --resource /teleport.example.com/node/b1168402-9340-421a-a344-af66a6675738 --resource /teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f \
    --reason <request reason>
```

You can search for resources of kind `node`, `kube_cluster`, `db`, `app`, and `windows_desktop`.
Advanced filters and queries are supported, see our

> [filtering reference](/setup/reference/cli.mdx/#resource-filtering).

Reviewer: sorry my suggestion was a wrong suggestion, you need to do this for it to work (should work, i'd double check):

`../../setup/reference/cli.mdx#resource-filtering`

the `../..` takes you back to `docs/pages`

I had to do it this way when i wrote the predicate guide (look at url) [docs/pages/setup/reference/predicate-language.mdx](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitational/teleport/master/docs/pages/setup/reference/predicate-language.mdx) and had to refer to files in `access-controls/guides/` which was outside of my current directory `setup/reference/`

```
e.g:
- [Dynamic Impersonation](../../access-controls/guides/impersonation.mdx#filter-fields)
- [RBAC for sessions](../../access-controls/reference.mdx#filter-fields)
```

not sure if there is another way of doing it :woman_shrugging:

Their certificate is restricted to only allow access to the resources they were specifically approved for.
They will need to `tsh logout` and log back in to resume their regular access.
</Admonition>

## Next Steps

### Automatically request access for SSH

Once you have configured resource access requests,
`tsh ssh` is able to automatically create a resource access request for you when access is denied,
allowing you to skip the `tsh request search` and `tsh request create` steps.

```code
$ tsh ssh alice@iot
ERROR: access denied to alice connecting to iot on cluster teleport.example.com

You do not currently have access to alice@iot, attempting to request access.

Enter request reason: please
Creating request...
Request ID: ab43fc70-e893-471b-872e-ae65eb24fd76
Username:   alice
Roles:      access
Resources:  ["/teleport.example.com/node/bbb56211-7b54-4f9e-bee9-b68ea156be5f"]
Reason:     "please"
Reviewers:  [none] (suggested)
Status:     PENDING

hint: use 'tsh login --request-id=<request-id>' to login with an approved request

Waiting for request approval...
 
Approval received, reason="okay"
Getting updated certificates...
 

> iot:~ alice$

Reviewer 2: This is such a great workflow. Nice job here!
